# Motivation Letter 1: Afag Hashimova

**Dear Selection Committee Members,**

By writing this email, I deep-heartedly want to convey my curiosity and enthusiasm for being nominated as one of the DAAD Scholarship holders of a Master’s Degree in Renewable Energy and Environmental Sciences Fields starting in the upcoming year. My successful academic and social background together with my deep desire of being a qualified engineer in this field gives me the opportunity and courage to apply for this position.

After being lost in how to pursue my career in the future, I finally found my niche as a future engineer in the Renewable Energy field due to several reasons. The main reason originated from a piece of advice given to me by my high school Chemistry teacher who inspired me to become a chemical engineer at the university I am studying currently. He was always bringing several books and encyclopedias to the class giving extra information despite the fact that we were still young to grasp every point he mentioned. However, his main aim was not to teach us advanced-level chemistry but to determine our way of thinking and sense of learning as an engineer. At that time, he noticed some high-caliber students among 26 students one of whom was me. He was such a perspicacious instructor since his recommendations and directions at that time led me to propel myself higher up the career ladder as a chemical engineer now, I grew up to give self-decisions about what is the best choice for me to progress in my academic life.

As can be expected, the main industrial areas in Azerbaijan are related to Oil and Gas Extraction and Harnessing thus I am mostly inclined to learn the design and optimization of the equipment utilized in such industries, and less attention was put to the green energy sector in my current university. However, after participating in the training program called “Greentech Summer Camp 2021” organized within the existing cooperation between the Ministry of Energy and Masdar and bp on 7-8 July 2021, my vision toward the future was radically changed. The training program was held both physically and online at the Gobustan Hybrid Power Plant under Azerbaijan Renewable Energy Agency under the Ministry of Energy. The main theme of the program was the use of renewable energy sources, solar and wind energy, offshore wind energy, hydrogen energy, the production of “green hydrogen” by electrolysis, the basics of hydrogen fuel elements, and the introduction of “green energy” technologies. Specialists of the Azerbaijan Renewable Energy Agency, Masdar, and bp made reports, and discussions were held on them together with practical sessions in the control rooms of these devices. I was extremely motivated, therefore I decided to apply for a renewable energy internship position in State Agency on Alternative and Renewable Energy Sources (SAARES) just 1 month later the completion of the program so that I would be able to gain more detailed information regarding the working principle behind these devices in a real-life working environment. It was at that time I was determined to develop relevant skills on this topic by completely immersing myself to be on the same wavelength with those who hold the same interest as me by participating in several seminars and training related to Renewable Energy and its applications in real life.

Furthermore, during my 2-month internship period in bp Exploration (Caspian Sea) Limited, Chirag Offshore Platform, I was working on the Flaring Gas Emission Reduction project and reached useful conclusions also suggested several propositions to further decrease the amount released into the atmosphere. Considering the adverse effects of flaring gas waste on environmental contamination and the fact that we all need to comply with the Paris Agreement to keep the global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels together with its huge contribution to climate change by releasing millions of tons of CO2 to the atmosphere, I was required to optimize the process in Chirag to considerably decrease the flared gas emissions. Following several trials, optimization, and maintenance stages, I achieved to reach beneficial conclusions presenting them at the end of my internship period in front of the field specialists and engineers. While working on this project, I built strong professional relationships with experts in different engineering fields, also had a chance to work as a team with my supervisor who contributed to my further academic and technical development as a chemical engineer. Thanks to this internship, I was also able to excel at multitasking and time management skills so that I would be able to carry out several tasks at the same time by constructing a roadmap.

Other than that, throughout my education life, I had a chance to challenge and enhance my research skills by being part of scientific conferences, namely the 2nd and 3rd International Student Research and Science Conference on ‘Sustainable Development in Chemistry and Chemical Engineering in 2021 and 2022 respectively on ‘Oil and Gas Technologies’ and ‘Environmental problems and Biotechnology’ branches. I was the winner of correspondingly 2nd and 3rd places each year. Both of my accomplishments are the results of teamwork where I was the leader of the group, managing the task divisions, and project management efficiently to accomplish the desired outcome. Besides that, my other project ‘Biofactant’ which is about the manufacture of surfactants from wasted cooking oil won a Silver award at the 6th China International College Students' “Internet+” Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competition among 3,291 projects in 2020 and won third place in "Idea Var" competition in 2021.

I have always immersed myself in carrying out research, developing my relevant skills, and being ambitious about my short-term goals so that I could reach my long-term ones. Recently, I have been overthinking too much about the conservation of the world for the next generation and generating energy resulting in no or fewer greenhouse gases by reducing dependence on conventional fossil fuels. There is a rising demand for engineers that have extensive knowledge of innovative technologies for renewable new energy systems and energy production worldwide. With that being said, in Germany, advances in renewable energy have created an entirely new industry for employment centered on the development, production, installation, and maintenance of technologies based on the IRENA 2015 report. Germany started down the path of changing its energy system in 2000 when legislation to support the so-called "Energiewende" was adopted. In order to assess the impact and consequences of renewable energy on Germany and how to reduce pollutants and CO2 without lowering the standard of living, numerous pilot projects and studies were conducted and most of these projects reach positive results. Since the transition to green energy is slower in my country and the number of experts in this field is extremely lower, Germany is one of the best alternative countries to gain an academic degree in this field.

Regarding my primary choice in terms of universities, I consider the Master’s program in **“Clean Energy Processes” at Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg University**. This program seeks to equip graduates with the knowledge and abilities necessary to successfully address and work on solutions to concerns involving energy systems, energy conversion, and energy consumption in the chemical industry. The abilities I will be certain to gain from the program will benefit me in my future career to contribute to the economical and environmental improvement of my country. Students can also gain from being close to cutting-edge research being done by the Helmholtz Institute for Renewable Energy (HI-ERN), which focuses on the efficient and sustainable use of renewable energy. Therefore, the program is highly advantageous for me to gain knowledge in a wide range of academic and national or international industries. I was also astonished by the 12-month internship requirement and research that will be performed in the laboratory which enables students to apply their technical skills in a practical learning environment.

The Master’s program **“Renewable Energy Systems” in Technische Hochschule Ingolstadt** is definitely my second option since it aims to equip graduates with core skills to devise, improve, and control sustainable energy systems successfully. The interrelationship between these technologies and the demand side structure, rather than any particular technology, is the primary focus. Another noteworthy feature is that students receive support from a group of experts who not only impart fundamental information but also the components' system-relevant characteristics. Students compare, choose, and size components in accordance with the systems' established needs, understanding which limitations and requirements are crucial for designing, funding, and maintaining complex systems. I am also keen on learning how to speak the German language; thus, I can get benefited from the language courses offered by the university to reach the A1 level of the Goethe Institute.

Another choice of mine is **“Renewable Energy (M.Eng.)” at Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences** for 4 semesters. This degree is highly beneficial in terms of its program which will provide individuals with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to take on innovative tasks in the chemical industry, the public, and governmental sector, and more importantly in several research fields. The interrelationship between these technologies and the demand side structure, rather than any particular technology, is the primary focus. Another noteworthy feature is that students receive support from a group of experts who not only impart fundamental information but also the components' system-relevant characteristics. Students compare, choose, and size components in accordance with the systems' established needs, understanding which limitations and requirements are crucial for designing, funding, and maintaining complex systems.

Since I had previous experience studying abroad as an Erasmus+ Mobility Program participant in Portugal in the 2022 summer semester, I had a chance to establish strong international relations and gained knowledge and expertise in my field. This great opportunity equipped me with the valuable professional experience and skills necessary to build a successful career in modern competitive conditions in Germany. In conclusion, studying abroad is an exciting challenge for me, thus I am fully prepared to immerse myself in the flow of new impressions and positively contribute to the community. Without a doubt, studying in the center of Europe would have a lasting influence on my future social and professional life. In the hopes of being selected, I anticipate hearing from you.

Respectfully Yours,

**Ms. Afag Hashimova**

