# Motivation Letter 2: Asad Asadli

**Motivation Letter for DAAD Master Study Scholarship**

Dear Selection Committee,

To pursue my lifetime goal, being a professional process engineer and academician in related subject to serve my country – Azerbaijan, I see Germany as the best country to study, as it is one of the leading countries in engineering. The opportunities offered by German government and my strong theoretical and practical knowledge in aforementioned field made me apply for DAAD scholarship.

I am graduating senior at Baku Higher Oil School, in the major of Chemical Engineering. I enrolled in several internship programs in various industries related to chemical engineering as a process engineer and a quality control engineer and I decided that process engineering is the best appropriate career pathway to follow. During university years I gained technical and soft skills, such as, leadership, team – working, researching and presenting on the way of being universal process engineer by attending extra – curricular seminars and workshops, doing an internship abroad in petrochemical plant, being involved in social activities. Therefore, I feel confident about to claim my aspiration of studying in Germany.

There are several reasons why I believe that I am the best fit candidate to be awarded with DAAD scholarship. First of all, being enrolled in two months’ internship program in PETKIM Aromatics Plant, Izmir, Turkey helped me develop my practical skills and know how to apply my theoretical knowledge in the real industry. I worked in the team of interns from different top universities of Turkey in various engineering projects. As an easy – going, flexible, extravert person I could easily adapt to that group. I faced with difficult, extraordinary problems, which were not covered in the university studies, but I managed to solve them by researching deeply, asking engineers for supervision. On the whole, being surrounded by professional engineers, observing real life situations, working on the projects with a completely new team, accomplishing all of these in a foreign country helped me sharpen various life – long skills. Moreover, I can surely say that my language learning skills are quite well – developed. In recent days, I scored 7.5 in IELTS examination by self – study. In addition, I took 1st place in 12th World Turkish Olympics in the field of Turkish Grammar in 2014. As an excellent user of Turkish, I didn’t have difficulties with language barriers during my internship period there. Therefore, I am aware of importance of foreign language for living there, so I am planning to start learning German after finishing my diploma work. If I get DAAD Scholarship, I am sure I could increase my proficiency in German considerably before the semester starts. Apart from academic I also had socially active university life. I had been president of BHOS Intellectual Games Club – the biggest student society at my university for 2 years. Through this experience I improved my organizational, team – building, leadership, decision – making skills, which are main assets of any individual professional. I am also mentor of SPE Chemical Engineering Chapter, where I give lectures on “Process Calculations” to junior year students, share my knowledge and experience with them. This is the step in being academician, which is my lifetime goal.

I have been planning to study in Europe for several years and Germany stands at the top for its excellent education, including large – scale research opportunities and wide range of courses and powerful local and international companies, in which students could get chance to have an internship program during their studies. I made my decision about doing master’s degree in Germany exact after having a discussion with graduate of my university, who is studying in Germany for his master’s education. He motivated me by talking about modern laboratories fully equipped with cutting – edge technology, international environment, high quality supervision in German universities. DAAD is an excellent chance to accomplish my goals by funding my life expenses, which is not possible doing it myself.

While considering a university and major, I decided to apply for **Advanced Materials and Processes at Friedrich – Alexander University** as my first choice. Besides of being one of the best universities of the Germany, the main attracting aspect of the course itself is intensive study of specialization areas together with the associated project work as well as practical applications, industrial internship opportunities, which could provide broad career opportunities in Azerbaijan. I am doing a final year research on advances in membranes for post – combustion carbon dioxide capture and one of the main focal subjects of the course is Advance Processes, in which I believe I can prove myself in this field and contribute to chemical industry of Azerbaijan with my knowledge in the future.

**Chemical and Bioprocessing Engineering at Hamburg University of Technology** is my second choice. Most companies in Azerbaijan try to switch traditional fossil – fuel based refineries to bio refineries in an upcoming future and being qualified in this field and university could draw me to the top position in my homeland. In addition, having chance of to get an insight into the most challenging problems on the boundaries between bioprocess engineering and chemical engineering and participate in the teamwork research.

My last choice is **Process Engineering and Energy Technology in Bremerhaven University of Applied Sciences**. Main attracting aspect of this course is opportunities offered in communal and industrial environmental technology, innovation management and production of regenerative energies.

My aim is to become professional process engineer and devote myself to the development of chemical industry of Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan has a long way to go, but I want to be a part of this refinement process. DAAD Scholarship is the best stimulus for me to accomplish my career goals, to boost economy of Azerbaijan and play a role in education of future generation engineers as an academician.

Thank you for consideration and reading this letter.

Kind regards,

**Asad Asadli**