Dear Sir/Madam,
In order to be given the chance to continue my education as a foreign student at one of the top universities in Hungary, I am writing to express my intense interest in computer science and related fields such as the bachelor's program in computer science. I hope to take advantage of this opportunity, which could be crucial to my career progress.
I'd want to talk about my decision to major in computer science. When I was a kid, my father had quite an old computer. My sisters just used it to keep playing games, but I was curious about how it operated in addition to the games. I was amazed with how, when playing games, I could move the characters around the screen by tapping on this strange device. Over time, this aroused curiosity grew progressively. In high school, I picked up the alp logo programming language, which helped me understand the concepts and basic logic of programming languages. Subsequently, I developed an interest in the Sketch-Up 3D design application and represented my school in many competitions, learning a ton about 3D design in the process. I kept learning more about programming throughout the pandemic by researching online, taking advanced python classes, and looking into different programming languages. With each new skill I acquired, my interest in the field grew. Since I was a little child, I've known what I wanted to do for a living, and I am more passionate about it every day. I've long desired to work in this field in Hungary.
The are various reasons why I am opting for Hungary as my priority, to all of which I attach equal significance. To start, the likelihood of students experiencing culture shock is greatly reduced, due to the fact that many students from different backgrounds and nations choose to study in Hungary. This means that I am highly likely to find myself in a place where students from diverse cultures, including those from my own country, gather and help each other cope with cultural gaps of any kind. The adaptation process will even be further facilitated by the fact that the Hungarian are kind and understandable towards newcomers, based on what I have heard from not only the internet but also people I know who have the experience of studying in Hungary. Admittedly, I cannot deny low living costs in Hungary being another appealing feature. As known, students are required to be immersed in their studies and trainings that follow, which consume most of their time, preventing them from working in most cases. Therefore, the duration of my education in Hungary will be much more effective as I will be able to devote myself to the program and dive into computer science as mush as possible.
Additionally, I'm excited to learn and understand more about advancement, evolution, and limits of computers in that where their application is not implemented at its full potential, as well as their impact. I am inspired to follow the academic path offered by Hungarian institutions to gain knowledge of computer science and its application in the current world by my active involvement both inside and outside of the classroom and in activities with my professors.
I believe that Hungary is a great location to learn computer science. I have decided to submit my application for a bachelor's degree program at a Hungarian university because these institutions are one of the few that administer a curriculum that links computer technology and their potential uses, right from the beginning of a bachelor's degree. I consider that the curriculum and the requirements of the program are completely in line with my areas of interest and research curiosity. I was able to learn a lot about university campuses and student life via the Stipendium Hungaricum website. With the former in mind, I believe I am quite capable of achieving perfect academic results. I have a conscientious and aspirational nature. I am convinced that studying computer science in Hungary will grant me the requisite experience and create the ideal environment for me to develop the range of skills necessary for a successful career in today's organizations.
I am confident that my exceptional mathematical skills and knowledge provide me with a solid reference for a spot at this very competitive program, which attracts students who are extremely motivated. Therefore, if you choose to approve my candidacy for the program, I could prove how much I can contribute. At the same time, I will not stop at any probable challenges and significant effort requirements I will face to successfully finish this program. I believe that pursuing computer science in Hungary will provide me with the necessary training and the right setting for me to hone the variety of abilities required for a prosperous career in the future.
I appreciate your consideration of my submission in advance.

Sincerely,
Orxan Musayev
