**Cleaned Transcript:**

So today I'm going to read my letter of motivation which helped me win two Erasmus Mundus courses. Not only that, but Cardiff University's fully funded scholarship, and now I have also got acceptance to some of the prestigious PhD programs in the US, Canada, and Australia. Just for fun, I have also reviewed more than 500 essays of different students through Scholars Avenue. You can also ask me to review through Scholars Services, and many of those students got acceptance in Erasmus Mundus scholarships, and you can see the examples on our website.

So with all of these experiences, I'm going to read one of the Erasmus courses that I'm pursuing now, WAVES, and how I wrote my letter of motivation. The rule is simple: I will read line by line. You have to follow, and I will explain each line very clearly — like what things I did and how you can adapt this concept according to your own field. Because you cannot copy this idea, even if you are applying in WAVES, because everyone in my program knows about this idea and they have read it multiple times. Because in all of the academic selection committees, you never know who is going to read your letter. So anyone from the department can read it, but they already have access to all of the applicants that they have already selected in the past. So don't be too smart or copy.

So the first line that I followed — a very technical line — I often say to all of the students: start with something technical. Listen: "Sustainability and safety of a structure anchors my many interests in structural health monitoring." This is the first line of my essay. The very technical line — like you can see, "sustainability and safety of a structure" is a technical line — "anchors my many interests in structural health monitoring." Structural health monitoring is a thing that relates with my prior experience in civil engineering vibrations with the future, like the program I'm applying to, WAVES Acoustics. So it relates both of the courses in just one word: structural health monitoring. So you just see, in just one line I have communicated my whole idea behind why I am applying for this WAVES program. So you have to think creatively on your own field.

And now the second sentence in my first paragraph: "As a civil engineer interested in modeling and programming, I have developed a strong passion for developing acoustic devices to benefit engineers in my field." Now taking the idea to a further level, I have clarified why I am interested. I am interested in coding. I'm interested in modeling. Now I want to help engineers in my field — civil engineering — to develop some acoustic devices which can help the engineering discipline in civil engineering. Because in civil engineering they don't have much acoustic devices, but they actually need it. They need this knowledge. So I'm linking everything.

So you got the idea how to link your prior experiences and ideas. And my first paragraph is just of two sentences — that simple. All of this essay is just 500 words because there was a limit to write only 500 words in my program. And believe me, you can write even in 300 to 400 words and the selection committee is going to be convinced if you are writing in a technical way and a good way.

And I would again say you can always reach us on Scholars Avenue/services. You can ask us to review your letter, you can ask us to review your CV, you can ask us to review your documents, process your application — if you want anything, we have a team of professionals who can assist you.

Now coming back to the second paragraph. So the first sentence is: "My undergraduate studies in civil engineering have provided me with a solid foundation in principles of structural design and analysis." I have explained a bit about my technical skills that I have. I'm not mentioning all of the courses that I have done because this is something useless — they already can see in your transcript. Just mention the skills that you have developed other than the transcript. So this is also a very unique idea, I would say.

And now the second sentence of the second paragraph: "However, I have come to realize that the key to ensuring the longevity and safety of a structure is not just its initial design but in its ongoing monitoring and maintenance." Do you know how I am connecting the sentences? Like "however" connecting part — and I got to know that the safety of a structure is not only depending on the initial design; it depends on ongoing monitoring. This is something that you have to write in your essay: why you are applying — something technical, even if you are applying for social sciences. There are some technical words or technical language that you have to follow when you're writing for your scholarship application. This is not something that you ask ChatGPT to do. You have to think it. I wrote this essay when there was no ChatGPT in 2022, so you have to be creative enough to write your essay.

So now coming to the third paragraph: "Taking the same interest forward, I designed my final year project to develop a vibrating wire strain gauge to investigate the damage in reinforced concrete members." So simple — I am taking the interest forward. That I developed an interest in structural analysis and then the longevity and safety of structure, and now I'm taking that same interest forward and I have designed my final year project or my undergrad thesis on similar vibrating wire strain gauge technique in my civil engineering structures. So now how I'm relating things — this is something important that you have to relate things in your essay.

And now coming to the second sentence: "This acoustic strain gauge provides numerous benefits, including its sensitivity to measure strains up to 1 micrometer and its property of being easily attached to any concrete surface. The gauge operators can be made in lab due to its low cost, which gives it an edge over conventional systems." I have explained my undergrad thesis in just two sentences. But do you see the connecting sentences? This is something important in proper good English. So you have to follow the sentence structure too. And also don't use some fancy words because all of the Europeans are not native English speakers and they don't like to see some fancy words. They just want to see technical words that they know, and they are looking for those words only because they are from scientific background and they are looking for those words. So I will again say: be technical.

And now coming to the third sentence of the third paragraph: "This experience not only solidified my interest in the field but also exposed me to the practical challenges engineers face when implementing SHM systems." SHM — I already mentioned earlier. SHM is structural health monitoring. And now I'm not using again the full word "structural health monitoring." And now see how I connected: like this final year project not only solidified my interest in the field but also exposed me to the practical challenges that engineers are facing in my field. So now after reading these lines, the selection committee is clear that this guy has practical knowledge, awareness, and solid experience in structural health monitoring and acoustic devices. So this is how you can connect everything.

And now the last sentence of my third paragraph: "In these years my interest in acoustic applications has increased tremendously and I dedicated a great part of my bachelor's degree and my recent professional career to explore this field." The simplest — you don't need to explain your professional career in your essay because they can only see in your CV what you are doing, where you are doing. You have to connect in a very, very short way and technical way. You don't need to write "I'm doing this, this, this in my job. I am working on structural health monitoring. I am working on structural analysis." They don't want to see that — they can see your CV. Do you see? Like I didn't repeat any word from my CV that "I'm doing this, this, this." They can only see my CV. I am just connecting the dots. Like you have to tell them, but in a technical way.

Now coming to the fourth paragraph: "During these academic and professional experiences, I have realized that my country barely has any company working to develop such acoustic devices." Very clear. I explained a bit about my country — that my country doesn't have any acoustic companies. "And as I observed this dilemma that my country is facing, I felt the need even more strongly to pursue a career in SHM systems." Like how the things are going — I'm relating everything: that my country doesn't have this infrastructure and that's why I perceive this thing in my mind that I need to pursue SHM systems more strongly. This is the idea that you can think in your own field.

So now coming to the fifth paragraph, starting a bit about the master's program that I'm going to study: "Searching for postgraduate programs that align with my professional and personal interests, the WAVES program immediately caught my eye because of its unique curriculum — being interdisciplinary, international, and inclusive." This is a very good line, I would say. I have explained all the things about the WAVES program in just one sentence. It's international. It has a very interdisciplinary curriculum. Like I would say the number one acoustics program in the world. No one anywhere in the world is teaching this much acoustics in two years. I have to be honest — no one even in the US and UK, Australia — no one is teaching this much acoustics that this course is teaching in just two years. And very interdisciplinary courses: from building acoustics to audio signal processing, aeroacoustics and vibroacoustics and everything audio signal processing that you can think of in acoustics — they are teaching you. So the courses are very interdisciplinary and the master's is international and very inclusive. Like people from various interdisciplinary backgrounds are studying with me. They are from mathematics background, they are from physics background, they are from electrical engineering background, they are from civil engineering, they are from architecture background, mechanical engineers are there. So very interesting courses. So I mentioned it.

Now coming to the second sentence: "I believe that these courses on modeling and acoustic techniques will help me identify failing structures and build reliable SHM devices." Do you know I managed that? Why I'm pursuing this course — and now I'm mentioning how this course will help me to achieve my goals. Like I believe that these interdisciplinary courses will help me learn some skills that will help me build reliable acoustic devices. So connecting the dots.

Now the third sentence: "To better ground these interests, I will also need a stronger background in other acoustic processes." So I'm not just only limiting myself to structural health monitoring because my program WAVES is not only structural health monitoring. They are also teaching me audio signal processing, they are also teaching me virtual acoustics, they are also teaching me aeroacoustics, vibroacoustics, metamaterials, waves and quantum media. So I have to be focused towards the whole curriculum, not only towards my field. That's the purpose of learning — you learn new things. And I'm mentioning that here.

So I'm pretty sure no one has ever told you how to write a letter of motivation the way I'm telling you. Like I have seen so many videos on YouTube and no one teaches the way I'm doing. Like no one reads their own letter of motivation. I'm reading it because I know this will help you. If you're watching this video, you can comment below to share your ideas.

And now coming to the next point: "The complete WAVES expertise will be crucial for me to become a true specialist in the field." Of course, I have connected the dot again.

"Another strong inspiration for applying to the WAVES program is the chance to study at three different universities across Europe while sharing classrooms with people from diverse cultural and academic backgrounds and experiencing different teaching styles." I'm mentioning that my colleagues are from different academic and cultural backgrounds — that's something that I really like, and this is that you have to mention. And also different teaching styles. I will be studying at three different European universities — I would say four. I have studied at four different universities and all the teachers had different teaching styles. In Portugal we had something very different, and in Spain we had some very interdisciplinary courses and diverse teaching experiences, and in France we had like a very, very different experience because all of the teachers were not teachers actually — they were researchers. So you have to mention different teaching styles also.

And now the ending sentence: "Overall, the WAVES program will polish my technical skills and expand my network of acoustic enthusiast students, professors, alumni, and NGOs." So overall program will help me improve my technical skills and also expand my network. And that's the fifth paragraph as well.

Now coming to the last paragraph of this essay. I know so many people will say "just give us this, we will see how to manage it." But I know if I have posted this on something on my website or something like that, people will copy it and they will create problems for themselves. So I'm explaining the way. Even in fact I know you can also pause the video and copy from there too. I'm reading exactly the same thing. But you have to invest some time. So I want you guys to invest some time and think about your own field.

Now the last paragraph: "The future will bring challenges both for me and the acoustic field. Of course, it will bring challenges to build more resilient outcomes. And to address these challenges, I plan to pursue a PhD where I will keep working in interdisciplinary and international environments by leading projects." They don't want to see that you will go back to your country, you will serve your country or what you want to do, you want to work in the field or you want to do a PhD. They just want to see that you will be contributing towards the field. You will be contributing in the form of a job. You will be contributing as a consultant with NGO or something like that. What will be the outcome that they have invested so much money — around €80,000 on you for two years — and what will be the outcome? So they want to see that outcome. So I'm just telling them that I am planning to pursue a PhD in interdisciplinary and international environments. I will be collaborating with people from different interdisciplinary backgrounds.

So the next paragraph: "In the long run, I am interested in developing efficient SHM devices to solve real-world engineering problems." I have explained the way in the start and now I'm ending. In the long run, I want to build SHM devices. "I believe that the high standards of the WAVES program will open many doors for me, boosting my confidence to turn these future aspirations into achievable realities." Simple. I'm ending my essay here.

So in all of this essay, you can see how I have connected the dots, how I'm explaining everything in a technical way. Not only because I'm from engineering background or I'm from technical background. Anyone from even social sciences or business background — they can explain in their technical language. And technical readers love technical language. They want to see this sort of letter. They want to see someone who is speaking about the field, who has some idea what they want to achieve through the master's and how they are going to achieve it. I explained everything in 500 words — just 500 words. People will say write 800 words, 900 words — that doesn't matter.

If you want to contact me you can always contact me through my Instagram page and you can always check our services on Scholars Avenue and you can contact us. Remember that we have helped so many students in their essays, in their application process, in applying abroad, and you can always reach us.

So that's all. If you're still watching this video, just comment below "scholarship is the smart way" so that I know how many people are sincere with themselves. See you in the next video.